---
layout: post
title: "AInxiety"
date: 2023-06-02
tags: []
---

It just occurred to me: I might be the best person in the world for you to talk to if you're feeling nervous about what the media is calling AI.

Here's why.

## I do in fact know stuff about computers

It's not my day-to-day specialty, but for what it's worth I have [an advanced degree in Computer Science](/education). I'm _familiar with_, but not expert in, the technology behind ChatGPT, Bard, Stable Diffusion, whatever. 

That's actually ideal, because the people working in this space have an incentive to hype it up*. Speaking of hype ...

## I work in marketing

... and everything you've heard about AI is marketing. That doesn't mean it's not true! But truth is secondary to the effectiveness of a marketing campaign.

After spending the last several years in the tech space, I can help put the current mania into perspective. And I can do so without making you feel like an idiot, because ...

## I used to teach kindergarten

At one point I taught a room full of 6-year-olds to count in binary. (It's fun.) 

I mention that to demonstrate that this stuff is learnable, and that I am patient, and good at explaining things.

So if the headlines, the hearings, or the feed of your favorite social media influencer has got you feeling anxious about AI, [let's chat](/contact)! 

[`#nopitch`](/nopitch){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}

\*_Not all of them give in to this temptation! I can point you to several domain experts with very grounded perspectives on the topic._
