---
layout: post
title: "blip wip"
date: 2023-01-11
tags: []
---

"The present moment is all we have," the gurus will tell us. And they're right of course, but can we get some acknowledgement for just how _weird_ a moment it is?

todo blip premise via - the device you're reading on and the infra that sent it

todo and the guy who sent it, and what he does

todo zoom in on the local: barbour, and hint at a couple challenges

todo if you were hoping for answers, sorry && musta overdid the copywriting on the signup page. but what i will do is share what i'm doing about *waves hand* all this. the efforts my wife and i are making locally. and i'll put in time to find the others (/long-game) and share what they're up to.

And if you're reading this: _You're the others_. What work are you doing, what ideas do you have to ensure the well being of the young people who will outlive us, and the ones who will (hopefully) be born a thousand years from now?

---

old version:
"The present moment is all we have," the gurus will tell us. And of course they're right—but can we get an acknowledgement of just how _weird_ a present moment it is?

todo general timeline thingy, start w the machine you're reading on and the infra that got it to you, then the guy who sent it

todo move to setting: small town in the deep south

todo not to say life was better XXX years ago or that we should return to it—it wasn't and we shouldn't. period. BUT ... todo inherit rituals and knowledge that serve and will serve one's offspring. now, not so much

if you're expecting the answer, so sorry, must have gotten overzealous with the copy on the subscribe page. not at all. but i want to share what my wife and i are doing to make sense of things and leave a better world. and find the tohers, and share what *they're* doing, too

And if you're reading this: You're the others. What are you doing now to serve the young people who outlive us, and those who (hopefully) will be born thousdands of years after we're both gone?
